In this video we'll look at some of the basic configuration for an ESX host and we really have two ways
that we can go about configuring a host.
Right.
We can come into the these for web client go under the configure tab and set up all sorts of things
like storage and virtual switches.
We can do our licensing configuration.
We can do time configuration and all of this sort of stuff.
But what I think I'm actually going to do is demonstrate this using the host client.
So here I've pointed my browser to the IP address for my ESX I host itself and I'm going to go ahead
and log in directly to this host and we can do a lot of the basic settings here.
So under manage.
Let's take a look at what we can do for the system.
We have settings like autostart do we want virtual machines to automatically start when the ESX host
starts.
And so I'm going to go ahead and use Yassar and I'm going to give it a certain amount of delay so maybe
I'll say you know what let's wait a few minutes here before we actually start up for our machines and
when this host starts up.
And then if we're shutting down the host maybe we want them to stop.
So I'm going to go ahead and enable auto start.
And that's one option we can pick the host swap location.
Right.
So let's take a look at these configurations.
Do we want to enable host swap.
Do we want to pick a specific data store.
And here's something that you'll probably want to configure the A.P. client right.
So let's edit settings on our network time protocol.
I'm going to set it up so that NTPC will automatically start when the ESX host starts and I'm going
to put in the IP address of my anti-peace.
And go ahead and hit save here.
And so now I'm going to refresh the status and I'm going to actually go into actions and start the anti-peace
service and make sure that this works successfully OK.
So now a.p is enabled.
It's running and this ESX host is going to get its time from this anti-peace server.
So those are some of my basic system settings that we can configure under hardware.
We can see all the devices we can also see the power management policy as well.
We're using a balanced policy.
We're going to just leave that at the defaults.
Here's my enterprise plus license key if I want to assign a different license I can do that here by
clicking on the sign license.
You can see all of the features that are included with this license key down below the license key itself
under packages.
Here we can see all of the updates and packages that have been installed and their services we can stop
and start the different services that are running on the ESX I host.
So for example let's say that we wanted to disable or enable S-sh.
Here's the S-sh service.
I can go ahead and start that service or I can stop that service.
So I have the ability to start and stop any of these services here.
So you can see right now A.P. is running right I just started that service
finally under security and users.
Let's go to authentication at the moment my ESX host has not been joined to an Active Directory domain.
I can do that if I'd like to and by joining the host to the domain I can now allow individuals to log
in to the host and manage it using their domain credentials instead of the root password.
So this is a security best practice for sure.
Then under users we can see the users for this particular host if I'd like to I can add individual users
like Mad Men or whatever the name I want to give it and I can add passwords here and that will allow
me to have users locally authenticate to this particular ESX I host and manage it.
And if I want to I can assign different levels of permission to those users.
Well we can see that under rules.
So here are the different roles that are available.
And then I can also configure a lockdown mode so at the moment lockdown mode is disabled.
If I choose to enable strict lockdown mode what that is going to do is it is going to force any management
of this host to come through the center.
I won't be able to launch this host client that we're using right now.
That won't work.
I won't be able to launch the direct console user interface or DC UI on this host that'll be locked
down too.
So if I enable strict lockdown mode the only way to manage this host is through the center.
And if the sender has some sort of catastrophic failure or something like that I'm probably going to
end up rebuilding this ESX host versus normal lockdown mode which enables management through the center
and the DC UI.
So I'll still be able to access the local console of those hosts and manage them that way.
I'm going to leave lockdown mode disable now because at the moment I don't need that any.
You can also use the host client to do things like add data stores and you can see a couple of data
stores that we've added here I can create new data stores I can manage my storage adapters and do things
like add a software I scuzz the initiator and I can see all the ones that my host has access to.
And I can manage my networking as well.
Right here we can see the different groups that are available to the host.
I can see my virtual switches that are available physical Next all the VM kernel ports and I can even
modify some firewall rules and this is an important security step here.
Right.
So I know that in my particular environment the only DNS server is on the 192 dot 168 that 199 address
range.
So if I'd like to I can come in here to the firewall and I can say the DNS client is only going to be
allowed to connect to 1 9 2 1 6 8 1 9 9 0 slashed 24 and now I've created a firewall rule that is essentially
securing DNS right.
So this is definitely a security best practice to come in here modify all of these firewall settings
to only allow the appropriate address ranges.
And switched back to open wide because this is just my lab environment and I'm not too worried about
it.
And then finally the other thing that we can do in the host client is manage our virtual machines.
So I can go find one of my VM I can right click it and edit the settings on the VM.
I can power them off I can power them on I can change all of my VM options here so you can manage all
your virtual machines from this individual host client as well.